One of the things I've been appreciated
for in the past is telling people what
not to buy of Jake Wish Biomedical
products. Um, and I I don't do that, you
know, for any reason other than I don't
want people to waste their money. It's
like if X3 is not right for you, then
you shouldn't buy it. Um, so I get a lot
of questions about the Force Bar. So,
should everybody buy the Force Bar? I
don't think so. Uh, I think the force
bar, first of all, it's basically twice
as expensive. It's almost $1,000.
Uh, it's more expensive. Now, I mean,
keep in mind if you were to look at if
there are any like competitive product
to the force bar, like there are some
out there that are very elaborate and
also don't provide enough resistance and
cost like 5,000 bucks. So, by
comparison, the Force Bar is still
rather
inexpensive. But if you get the regular
bar, uh here's why. When it comes to
strength, if strength is your number one
priority, you need to make sure you're
putting more resistance through a muscle
all the time, like you need progressive
resistance. And that number, that total
force number that we're calculating is
absolutely critical. that is the amount
of work that that given muscle has done.
And anything less than that really kind
of means you didn't stimulate. I know
that that sucks to hear, but it's okay.
I mean, think about most people. How
many workouts do they grow from in their
lifetime? Let's think about nonx3 users.
maybe 20 in their life because most
people don't grow a whole lot of muscle
ever, even if they work out for 20
straight years.
So, it you really have to keep that
progression in mind. Now, if your goal
is muscular
size, then the strength doesn't matter
that much. So, you're probably just
better off getting the regular
X3 and that's only $550.
So, the issue with size is really
regular almost constant exposure to
forcing blood flow into the muscle and
showing a distinct level of muscular
fatigue to trigger growth. So that this
is volume training and we have uh our
volume program coming out very soon. But
if you're going to do the multiple sets
volume training focusing on muscular
size, you really don't need to worry so
much
about those
maximum force numbers. Now they're still
cool. I'm kind of going down both paths.
I want to be absolutely as strong as
possible and now I'm sort of refocusing
on size. I I never focused on size. The
whole program was really about strength.
Now, one thing I find a little bit
irritating about some of the studies is
they're all shortterm. So, like
ultimately the stronger person is going
to be more muscular over time. I mean,
just look at like powerlifters versus
bodybuilders. Powerlifters are much
bigger and much more powerful. And then
when they lean down, they tend to
like be just thicker, thicker muscle
bellies, thicker tendons, more like very
obviously more powerful than
bodybuilders. So I I think it's still X3
is primarily focused on strength and
that gives you a much better base and
long-term plan for holding more
musculature when you're frame because
you have the foundation to do it. if you
start with volume training, you're
really not going to end up with that
same foundation or it's going to take
longer to build that uh as opposed to
focusing on that or you know, you do
both. So, I will be discussing in the
coming months how you can execute on
being absolutely as strong as possible
and
absolutely as big as possible.